# BIOMD0000000275: goldbeter2007

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000275.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000275.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This is the simple model without diffusion described in th epublication  
**Sharp developmental thresholds defined through bistability by antagonistic gradients of retinoic acid and FGF signaling.**   
Goldbeter A, Gonze D, Pourquié O. _Dev Dyn._ 2007 Jun;236(6):1495-508. PMID:
[17497689](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17497689) , doi:
[10.1016/j.jtbi.2008.01.006](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jtbi.2008.01.006)  
**Abstract:**   
The establishment of thresholds along morphogen gradients in the embryo is
poorly understood. Using mathematical modeling, we show that mutually
inhibitory gradients can generate and position sharp morphogen thresholds in
the embryonic space. Taking vertebrate segmentation as a paradigm, we
demonstrate that the antagonistic gradients of retinoic acid (RA) and
Fibroblast Growth Factor (FGF) along the presomitic mesoderm (PSM) may lead to
the coexistence of two stable steady states. Here, we propose that this
bistability is associated with abrupt switches in the levels of FGF and RA
signaling, which permit the synchronized activation of segmentation genes,
such as mesp2, in successive cohorts of PSM cells in response to the
segmentation clock, thereby defining the future segments. Bistability
resulting from mutual inhibition of RA and FGF provides a molecular mechanism
for the all-or-none transitions assumed in the "clock and wavefront"
somitogenesis model. Given that mutually antagonistic signaling gradients are
common in development, such bistable switches could represent an important
principle underlying embryonic patterning.

Originally created by libAntimony v1.4 (using libSBML 3.4.1)

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
For more information see the [terms of
use](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/legal.html) .  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Novère N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


